Review Configuring a Database guide (#9559)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/guides/src/main/server/configuring-database.adoc

<#import "/templates/guide.adoc" as tmpl>
<#import "/templates/kc.adoc" as kc>
<#import "/templates/options.adoc" as opts>

<@tmpl.guide

>     title="Configuring a database"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    title="Configuring the database"
```

    summary="An overview about how to configure relational databases"
    includedOptions="db db-*">

In this guide, you are going to understand how to configure the server to store data using different relational databases. You should also learn

> what are the databases supported by the server and how to proceed when using a unsupported database version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
what are databases are supported by the server.
```

Reviewer 2: another suggestion, without doubled "are" as in @stianst s ;) : 
```suggestion
You will also learn
what databases are supported by the server.
```

== Querying the list of supported databases

The server has built-in support for different databases. You should be able to query the available databases by looking at the expected values
for the `db` configuration option.

The list of supported databases and their corresponding versions are:

|===

> |Database | Version

Reviewer: The versions are what we tests with rather than what we directly support, so would make this clear.

```suggestion
|Database | Tested Version
```

|mariadb| 10.3
|mssql| 2016
|mysql| 8
|oracle| 12c
|postgres| 10
|===

[NOTE]
The server is opinionated about the databases and their respective versions. If you need support for a different database, there are some
advanced configuration options to override the default configuration (e.g.: JDBC driver, Hibernate ORM Dialect, disable XA, etc). In this case, please help us by creating an issue to discuss

> the possibility to support additional databases.

Reviewer: I would remove this section, as we will not support any relational database vendor out there, now or in the future. Some more thoughts on this:

* We should update our testing more regularly with more recent versions of the databases, but if we just change it to `Tested version` it leaves it open for folks to open an issue against newer versions if they don't work. We don't need to specify that in the docs though (as otherwise we'd have mentions like this everywhere)
* Cloud vendor specific versions like AWS RDS, we need to prioritise which we want to test/support, and when we do should cover this directly without extra config. I could be open for a section at the end mentioning some instructions on things to configure/tune to try to get it to work with various variants, but I'd leave that for later, and only if we have some instructions to provide

By default, the server uses the `h2-file` database. This is the default database that the server will use to persist data and

> really only exists so that you can run the authentication server out of the box. We highly recommend that you replace it with a more production ready external database. The `h2-file` database is not very viable in high concurrency situations and should not be used in a cluster either.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
really only exists so that you can run the authentication server out of the box.  The `h2-file` database is not suitable for production use-cases, and we highly recommend that you replace it with a production grade database.
```

== Configuring a database

For each supported database, the server provides some opinionated defaults to make it simpler to configure a database. The defaults allow
you to easily configure a database by just providing some key settings like the database host and credentials.

> To configure a database, run the `build` command to build a server image using the `db` build option to configure the server for specific database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the database vendor, run the `build` command to build a server image using the `db` build option to configure the server for specific database:
```

<#import "/templates/guide.adoc" as tmpl>
<#import "/templates/kc.adoc" as kc>
<#import "/templates/options.adoc" as opts>

<@tmpl.guide
    title="Configuring a database"
    summary="An overview about how to configure relational databases"

>     includedOptions="db db.*">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    includedOptions="db db-*">
```

In this guide, you are going to understand how to configure the server to store data using different relational databases. You should also learn
what are the databases supported by the server and how to proceed when using a unsupported database version.

== Querying the list of supported databases

The server has built-in support for different databases. You should be able to query the available databases by looking at the expected values
for the `db` configuration option.

The list of supported databases and their corresponding versions are:

|===
|Database | Version

|mariadb| 10.3
|mssql| 2016

> |mssql-2012| 2012

Reviewer: I'd suggest we remove `mssql-2012`

|mysql| 8
|oracle| 12c
|postgres| 10

> |postgres-95| 9.5

Reviewer: I'd suggest we remove `postgres-95`

you to easily configure a database by just providing some key settings like the database host and credentials.

To configure a database, run the `build` command to build a server image using the `db` option to configure the server for specific database:

<@kc.build parameters="--db postgres --db-url-host mypostgres --db-username myuser --db-password change_me"/>

In addition to the `db` configuration option, the `db-url-host`, `db-username`, and the `db-password`, are the bare minimum settings that you
need to provide in order to successfully connect to a database.

[NOTE]
By default, the default schema is set to `keycloak`. You can change that by using the `db-schema` configuration option.

== Configuring database credentials

You should be able to set database credentials using the `db-username` and `db-password` configuration options.

While tempting to set database credentials in plain text, you should avoid doing that whenever running in production in order to avoid unauthorized
access to your database.

The server allows you to securely store database credentials using different methods:

* Using placeholders
* Using the `build` command when creating a server image

> * Using Hashicorp Vault

Reviewer: Needs updating

Some methods are more suitable when deploying to a specific environment. For instance, using placeholders and environment variables is suitable when running on Kubernetes.
Each method has its pros and cons, and you should consider them carefully when picking one.

=== Using placeholders to reference credentials

Credentials can be resolved from environment variables when starting the server instead of having them explicitly set in
a configuration file (e.g.: conf/keycloak.properties) or when passing arguments via CLI.

> <@kc.start parameters=r"--db-username ${MY_DB_USER} --db-password ${MY_DB_PASSWORD}"/>

Reviewer: Wouldn't you just use KC_DB_PASSWORD instead?

In this case, when the server is starting both ${r"MY_DB_USER"} and ${r"MY_DB_PASSWORD"} are going to be resolved as environment variables.

=== Persisting credentials into the server image

When running the `build` command, any configuration option you set is persisted into the server image. By having the database
credentials into the server image, you no longer need to set them when starting the server.

When using this method, you should make sure that:

* The file permissions for the server distribution are properly set so that only specific users/groups are allowed to read and write to files
* If using a container registry, make sure the repository is protected

> * The node where the server is running is properly secured from unathorized access

Reviewer: This should be removed as it's no longer supported, and not a good idea anyways

=== Using a Vault

> You should be able to resolve the database credentials from Hashicorp Vault. For that, look at the guide https://link_to_guide[Configuring a Vault].

Reviewer: Needs updating as we don't have Hashicorp initially. The vault guide also doesn't cover DB atm?
